Challenge: Improving Efficiency & Production Process of Electric Vehicles using Data Science Techniques

This challenge has been designed to provide with you hands-on understanding of data science problems in commercial EVs’ production and optimization in most advanced motor technologies used by companies like Tesla, BMW and Ford. 

It is often a challenging and complex task to measure rotor and stator temperatures in commercial electric vehicles. Even if these specific tasks can be completed successfully, these testing processes cannot be classified as economical for manufacturers. Keeping in mind that the temperature data have significant importance on dynamical responses of vehicles and motors’ performances, there is an emerging need for new proposals and scientific contributions in this domain.

Consider, one manufacturer of electric cars hired you to propose an estimator for the stator and rotor temperatures and design a predictive machine learning or deep learning model. Such a model could significantly help your new company to utilize new control strategies of the motors and maximize their operational performances. If you build an accurate ML/DL model, the needs of the company for implementing additional temperature sensors in vehicles will be reduced. The potential contribution will directly result in lowering car construction and maintenance costs, and will convince the company to invest further in hiring DS experts like you.

Initial considerations

    1)The motors are excited by reference torques and reference velocities. These reference signals are achieved by adjusting motor currents (“i_d” and “i_q”) and voltages (“u_d” and “u_q”) within appropriate control strategy.
    2)Temperature estimations should be real-time, and not based on future values for current predictions. Real-time predictions shall protect the motor from overheating.
    3)The motor torque increases in inverse proportion to the decreased temperature.
    4)A steady-state of a motor can be achieved faster at lower temperatures.
    5)Phase currents increase with increased magnet temperature.

About Data:

Each row in the csv files represents complete measurement information from sensors in one time step and one row is recorded every 0.5 seconds. Individual measurement sessions last between 1 and 6 hours and can be identified with the “profile_id” column. The following table provides variables of interest and their short descriptions. The following table provides variables of interest and their short descriptions.

Ambient - Ambient temperature – measured by a thermal sensor
coolant - Coolant temperature measured at outflow.
u_d - Voltage d-component
u_q - Voltage q-component
motor_speed - Motor speed
torque - Torque induced by current.
i_d - Current d-component
i_q - Current q-component
pm - Permanent Magnet surface temperature (the rotor temperature) – measured with an infrared thermography unit
stator_yoke - Stator yoke temperature – measured by a thermal sensor.
stator_tooth - Stator tooth temperature – measured by a thermal sensor.
stator_winding - Stator winding temperature – measured by a thermal sensor.
profile_id - Each measurement session with a unique ID.

Prediction Varibles:

pm_predicted - Predicted rotor temperature
stator_yoke_predicted - Predicted stator yoke temperature
stator_tooth_predicted - Predicted stator tooth temperature
stator_winding_predicted - Predicted stator winding temperature

RMSE:

RMSE_pm:  0.35153019984326317
RMSE_stator_yoke:  0.5084295604137152
RMSE_stator_tooth:  0.4118579533174224
RMSE_stator_winding:  0.3200446434628302

Overall RMSE: 1.591862357037231
